# Exploratory Data Analysis
*This blog is my best explanation of Exploratory Data Analysis as it understand it. I answer the following questions.*
- What is my strategy for EDA?  
- What is my overall goal when doing an EDA? 
- What methods do I think are important? 
- What things do I try to look for?

My strategy for EDA is to start with my research question and then break it down in to smaller research questions. Exploratory data analysis about visualing the relationship between variables, so my overall goal when doing an Exploratory Data Analysis is to investigate the relationship between exposures and outcomes. For expample, I use run charts to plot heat index data against the number of emergency department visits attributble to heat illness throughout the summer. 

Some methods that I think are important are reporting proportions and reporting rates with confidence intervals rather than reporting counts alone.  

I look for outliers and anomalies in the data to make sure that I am asking the right questions. For example, my branch hosts [an interactive dashbord](https://epi.dph.ncdhhs.gov/oee/programs/EnvPubHealthTracking.html) to vizualize environmental exposures and their effects on health outcomes. We have heat maps to represent extreme heat exposure in each county in North Carolina. We noticed that the hottest counties did not appear to be the darkest on the heat maps. After exploring the data, I realized that our definition of extreme heat days varied from one county to the next because the heat threshold was determined by historical temperature data for each county, as opposed to one absolute threshold of 90 or 95 degrees across all 100 counties. Exploratory data analysis allowed us to change our definition of extreme heat days so we could visualize the heat exposure across North Carolina as intended.  
